changelog: add Workers Terraform, API, and Smart Placement fixes (#22149)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/changelog/workers/2025-03-22-smart-placement-stablization.mdx

---
title: Smart Placement will keep optimal placement decisions longer
description: Workers and Pages Functions with Smart Placement enabled will not unexpectedly return to default locations if heuristics are no longer met.
products:
  - workers
  - pages
date: 2025-03-22T00:00:00Z
---

> [Smart Placement](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/smart-placement/) figures out potentially better locations to run Workers and Pages Functions. There are heuristics to get these compute resources placed in optimal locations that are different from default locations (closest to where the request is received). Previously if these heuristics were not consistently met, compute would return to running in default locations. Now after heuristics have been met at least once, dropping below them won't unset optimal locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Smart Placement](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/smart-placement/) is a unique Cloudflare feature that can make decisions to move your compute (your Worker or Pages Functions) to run in a more optimal location (such as closer to a database). Instead of always running in the default location (the one closest to where the request is received), Smart Placement uses certain “heuristics” (rules and thresholds) to decide if a different location might be faster or more efficient.

Previously, if these heuristics weren’t consistently met, your compute resources would revert to running in the default location — even after they had been optimally placed. This caused issues when request patterns dipped for a while. The system would reset to the default location, rather than remaining in the optimal one.

Now, once Smart Placement has identified and assigned an optimal location, temporarily dropping below the heuristic thresholds will not force a return to the default location. This update prevents your compute from repeatedly shifting back and forth and ensures it stays in the optimal location once Smart Placement has deemed it necessary.
```

---

> title: Smart Placement will keep optimal placement decisions longer

Reviewer 2: tricky thing to title but maybe worth trying one more pass

description: Workers and Pages Functions with Smart Placement enabled will not unexpectedly return to default locations if heuristics are no longer met.
products:
  - workers
  - pages
date: 2025-03-22T00:00:00Z
---

[Smart Placement](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/smart-placement/) is a unique Cloudflare feature that can make decisions to move your compute (your Worker or Pages Functions) to run in a more optimal location (such as closer to a database). Instead of always running in the default location (the one closest to where the request is received), Smart Placement uses certain “heuristics” (rules and thresholds) to decide if a different location might be faster or more efficient.

> Previously, if these heuristics weren’t consistently met, your compute resources would revert to running in the default location — even after they had been optimally placed. This caused issues when request patterns dipped for a while. The system would reset to the default location, rather than remaining in the optimal one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, if these heuristics weren’t consistently met, your Worker would revert to running in the default location — even after they had been optimally placed. This meant that if your Worker received minimal traffic for a period of time, the system would reset to the default location, rather than remaining in the optimal one.
```
